[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: So again what you should
see if you got this working was, one,
if you were to go into the terminal,
it's going to clear this real quick and
type in npm start.
What's really all that it does is you look
at the package.json inside the scripts.
And you see this start property and
this is gonna run this command and
so this is gonna run the gulp command.
So if you follow that and
you go look in the gulp.js,
we go to the gulp command that's this one.
So if you just typing gulp it's gonna
run the default task which is this one
which runs the build tasks first finishes.
Runs the copy task second finishes,
runs the serve task, finishes and
it runs the watch task and then finishes.
So it does all these in a synchronize
order, so that's what npm start does.
So if we run npm start,
we'll see all its output, it's like,
cool I'm running the gulp.
This is npm right here,
it's like, okay, I'm going to run
the gulp command like you told me to.
And then the gulp command is like,
great, I'm gonna start the default task.
And if you go look at the default task,
it first runs the build tasks, so
if you scroll to the build task,
it's running this one first, but
the build task cannot run
until the todo task runs.
So that's why this says starting default,
starting todo and
then this totals thing you'll
see this means in a minute.
But this is irrelevant on this step when
we get closer to the end you'll see this
means so is like cool finished todo.
Now I'm actually gonna start the build
task now and that's why I says,
starting build and what build does, the
way it is works is to get this to work.
What we have to do is when I was
talking earlier about webpack and
how it only takes in one file
as a entry or application.
And it treats that file like the root
of a tree like this goes and whatever
that file imports or whatever its children
imports, that's what gets loaded up.
So all we have to do is,
load up this paths out entry or,
as usually if you're
very familiar with go.
What you would normally do is, you'd like,
here's all the path to my JavaScript,
right.
So, you would pass them like paths.js,
I'd probably done that first.
Because, you're thinking like I want
to compile all my JavaScript files.
So I'm going to pass in the glob patterns
on my job on all my JavaScript files.
But that's not the case the web pack
we want to paths an entry file and
have webpack take care of stuff for us.
Alternatively, if we were
not using webpack and
we were just using Babel,
Gulp we will do that, we would paths
in all the JavaScript files like
compile all these files for us please.
But then that means we would also have to
do the bundling, and concatenating and
stuff ourselves as well.
And then of course it would
run in the browser because
cope doesn't give us common js in
the browser so we still have a problem.
So that's what's happening here
we paths and paths out entry.
That's gonna put that entry file
in a buffer we pipe it to this
webpack plugin that we have up
here which is this webpack stream.
Which is just the webpack tool and used or
set up in a way that works well with go so
it can take in a stream.
That's all it does, it's the same thing
as webpack from the command line or
it's like the same thing if
you were to require webpack,
we'll call it 2 equals require webpack.
So the same thing except for
it just works better with go.
It does the same thing though,
does that make sense?
So just like if you are using webpack
we have to, we don't have to but
it takes an optional objects,
an optional configuration object.
To figure out how to the instructions on
how to run the files if you're pathing it.
Luckily, we already made one that's
the webpack and figured I'd say yes.
So all l I'm doing here is this requiring
that file, that's all I'm doing, so
that's going to be an object, so
everyone follow me here?
>> Audience: It's easier if you read that
object in the function again but
we have it in a separate file.
>> Scott Moss: Right exactly,
The reason we have it in
a separate file is for
whatever reason you were not using
gold before it even you had a CI.
Whatever even gold was in here and you
just wanted to run webpack we can do that
because it falls on the route like we
just want to come from the command line.
And I typed in webpack like this.
It's going to look at that webpack and
it's going to right, sweet.
And then now get the result
that webpack file,
which if we go look at
webpack is a bundle.js.
That's the result of it,
it creates a bundle.js.
So get the result of that and
stick it here, so pipe it to gulp.desk.
To the destination which
is the disk folder.
So go for create a disk folder for
you and put all this other stuff in here.
So you have like this bundled.js.map, you
might see some other stuff like in HTML.
There's a cat image there,
I don't know why it's even there.
So that's what's happening there, so
everybody follow me there so far?
So now if you go back to webpack and
see what's actually happening, the loader.
So mine looks a little different from you?
Different from everybody else's unless
you like really to read up on what
was happening with the babel loader.
So if you look at the first two here,
let's go in the detail about what's
happening with these objects.
So there's a lot of properties we can put
on the actual objects for the loaders.
But the first one is the test, so
the way this one works if you just give
it a regex right or anything to match it.
I think you also take a stream is
going to match the incoming file name
that's being sent to it with
that string or that regex.
And if it matches true, if it passes,
it's going to run the appropriate loader,
all right.
So what that means is, if I import
anything in my application that
has a .js extension then run whatever
loaders I tell you to on the right.
So that means if it's stylus HTML it won't
run through this loader which is great.
But like never mind, I'm not going to use,
so it's like a check to see.
So it's testing the file to see
if the condition is true and
if it is run this appropriate loader.
Right, so does everybody follow me there?
So you can put any regex
you want to right here.
This is just like the convention that
the community is doing, stuff like this.
So if you need a like, multiple files,
you just do, the regex of like js and
you know you also do JSX if you reason,
react or whatever, right.
So, we're just going to use JS and
then loader, the way loaders work.
This is a string of what loader you
want to run, so more about the loaders.
Let's just go look and just make more
sense if I show you the node modules.
By the way,
if you're using like npm version three or
up your node modules folder is flat,
it's not recursive anymore.
So, if you're node modules folder
doesn't look as long as mine,
don't worry, it's fine.
I'm just using the latest
version of npm and
they don't nest node modules anymore,
everything is flat.
So the way that loader work is,
the convention is,
if you wanna make a loader for
webpack you give it a name dash loader.
So Babel loader, raw loader,
CSS loader so that way webpack
knows how to look for them when you
place them inside the strings like this.
So when I say Babel, I'm actually
saying I want to have the Babel-loader,
either way is fine.
It will set any syntax but
because of that convention is there,
we can exclude the -loader.
So if you go look at nobody's folder and
which might is really really big and
so many babel things and
babel, babel-loader right.
So I found it so
that's how it knew what lower load
up because it's in the know
about tools folder.
Same thing with the rest of the so
there's a raw loader,
there's a CSS loader
there's a style loader.
There's a stylus loader, right?
Is everybody following me there?
>> Audience 2: I've got a question.
>> Scott Moss: Yes?
>> Audience 2: So when I go to start up
gulp, I get an error message that it
cannot find a module run sequence?
>> Scott Moss: You need to npm install
run-sequence,.
>> Audience 2: Okay.
>> Scott Moss: There should be
in a package.json and
make sure you save it to --safe.
So npm and saw run sequence --save.
So it stays in your pack such as json,
by following so
far the loaders how itself works
cuz if you notice I have like this
query string here at the end of Babel,
it's like stage=1.
This is how you paths in
options to these loaders,
because Babel is a JavaScript plugin,
and this is the webpack version of it.
So just like if you used Babel in
JavaScript, you can paths in options.
You should be able to paths in options
on the webpack version as well.
So the way they do that is, you usually
put like a query string at the end
of the loader and
you paths in the options that way.
So babel has an option called state
which allows us to turn features on and
off depending on when they were released.
So if you go look at that,
so it looks like that
looks like, we got a babel and let's see.
Yes.
>> Audience 3: You have time for
a couple questions here Scott?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, I do.
>> Audience 3: We have a small backlog so,
one Justin C is asking if you could show
that to do task in the Gulp file again
maybe just to leave up on
your screen in the meantime.
>> Scott Moss: Yes, I can it is this one.
>> Audience 3: Awesome, thank you.
There is a question on what browser
sync is doing in this context?
>> Scott Moss: A good question.
Yeah so if you have used browsing
before it's pretty amazing.
What browser same does one it acts,
it really is like a little
small express server a static server
that serves application or whoever port.
It wants to whatever tell it or
does that, so just serves it.
But at the same time what I would have
also do I turn it off by default.
But what it will do is it will
sink all your scrolling and
clicking across multiple browsers.
So that's why when you run the gulp task
or npm start it gives you all this output.
I'll show you this Brotherson gray or this
B.S. that's browser saying it's like cool.
Here's where your app is being served.
Here's an external URL that anybody on the
same WIFI connection is you can go to and
you all and if you start scrolling or
scroll on their page too.
If you start clicking to click
on their page and so forth and
then here is a URL to your UI,
which is like this dashboard that
browser sync makes for your app.
It's like a dashboard and
you can turn the clicking in sinking on or
off and then mess with the options.
So it's really legit, it's better
than library, it's like library
the real I don't like steroids and
I like It will like do everything.
It's really great for testing so
like you can load the thing up on your
mobile phone, load up on your desktop and
start clicking and see what's happening,
what's going on, give to somebody else.
So it's pretty crazy, so that's browser
sync, but I turned that off because
it gets really funky sometimes,
also if you turn off.
Open, it open the browser for you do so
if you just run this like this at a like
over the browser do all types of stuff.
But it can also do more of a set of
proxies and all types of things but
it's just a way for
us to have a better built system.
>> Audience 4: Can you hear me,
it would be ng-blog.
>> Scott Moss: There's
an error in your blog?
>> Audience 4: Yeah.
>> Scott Moss: Do you specifically know
what the error says?
>> Audience 4: There at the ng-blog at
1.0.1 starts with gulp, start script gulp,
like we probably could, ng-blog package.
>> Scott Moss: So that's just a node
throwing a error and the reason it says
ng-blog is because you're looking at
package.json, that's the name of this
package but the error could be anything.
I'll come and check you out in
a minute and see what's going on.